## Dependencies

The presence of dependencies does not dictate how robust your code is. It’s about how you utilize and manage those dependencies. Dependencies are absolutely crucial to sane reuse in your system. You can break code into smaller chunks and reorganize your codebase appropriately. By giving your dependencies the right directionality, you can actually increase the robustness of your code. You can make your code more maintainable by increasing substitutability and extensibility.
But, as with anything in engineering, there is always a cost. Dependencies are a coupling; linking different parts of your codebase together and making changes can have a wider impact than you might be looking for. There are different types of dependencies that must be handled in different ways. Physical dependencies are easy to visualize through tooling, but are also rigid in the structure they impose. Logical dependencies provide an extensibility to your codebase, but their nature is hidden until runtime. Temporal dependencies are a necessary part of executing Python in a linear fashion, but when those dependencies become unintuitive, they incur a ton of future pain.
All of these lessons assume that you have pieces of code that you can depend upon. In the next chapter, you’ll explore composable code, or breaking code into smaller pieces for reuse. You’ll learn how to compose objects, looping patterns, and functions to reorganize your code into new use cases. When you think in terms of composable code, you’ll start building in new functionality with ease. Your future maintainers will thank you.

